#ToD
I have created some clear `Redlines` in my life. And some `litmus test for my Imann And Amal`. Before coming to a non-muslim land there wasn't any imminent danger of loosing my heart. But here I need to actively surround myself with people of faith and engage in Dawah. I sat with Tablig Jamayat quite a lot, but didn't join their expedition in Bangladesh. But the same me got involved in Dawah Circle here, for the first time, we arranged events for about 250+ muslims. Something that inspired the whole muslim community here in Cottbus.

But in midst of positivity and khayr, there should be scope for scepticism. Am I deceiving myself somewhere?

So initially, I had a pretty decent English skill, strong English, I would say. But in the last six months, I've felt that some weaknesses have developed in my English (Due to communicating with people in Germans). The point is, it's not as strong as it used to be. So, at the end of the day, the reality is that the environment we live in always creates an influence within us, and overcoming or removing that influence and keeping oneself completely separate is actually very difficult. And it's also true that there are always some people, like the people of the cave of Ashab al-Kahf, who remain steadfast and firm in their path.

In reality, what's very important is understanding oneself, understanding one's capabilities. When I talked about the litmus test, what is it really? The litmus test is that I do some self-testing to understand whether my faith, my Iman, is actually improving or getting affected or infected. If I think of a person, for example, a software engineer, software is as good as its test. Now, when it comes to testing, before conducting a test, there need to be some initial parameters or assumptions. Understanding oneself, one's own capabilities, knowing from where I have come and how much I have achieved - if I keep my testing like this, for example, if I decide to read 1 Para of Quran  a day, that becomes very difficult because I haven't previously done it apart from Ramadan. So, aligning it with my previous life experiences, lifestyle, and habits, I need to create such a test that continuously shows me improvement, like a CI/CD pipeline.

So, if the point is to understand oneself well, what needs to be done is to look at life experiences and how we got here. The influences include, number one, family influence, then social influence, friends' influence, and life experiences. Gathering and summarizing these can help in understanding oneself. I don't like writing about very personal experiences because of  social engineering. But in the case, it's very important to be able to analyze oneself. So, in this article of my Digital Garden, I will try to compile various experiences and small summaries about myself. I will also write down my litmus tests. Some of them are in my mind, some are noted down in my diary, but having them in a digitalized position might be a better decision. So, it will be a bit lengthy, but nonetheless, it's necessary...

--- 
Todo: After Ramadan 2025
